# Supply and use tables

Create a table with processes, their inputs (*use*) and their outputs
(*supply*).

## Usage

``` r
build_supply_use(example = FALSE)
```

## Arguments

- example:

  If `TRUE`, return a small example output without downloading remote
  data. Default is `FALSE`.

## Value

A tibble with the supply and use data for processes. It contains the
following columns:

- `year`: The year in which the recorded event occurred.

- `area_code`: The code of the country where the data is from. For code
  details see e.g.
  [`add_area_name()`](https://eduaguilera.github.io/whep/reference/add_area_name.md).

- `proc_group`: The type of process taking place. It can be one of:

  - `crop_production`: Production of crops and their residues, e.g. rice
    production, coconut production, etc.

  - `husbandry`: Animal husbandry, e.g. dairy cattle husbandry,
    non-dairy cattle husbandry, layers chickens farming, etc.

  - `animal_draught`: Annual useful work energy generated by draft
    animals.

  - `slaughtering`: Slaughter of live animals into meat, edible offals,
    raw animal fats, and hides/skins.

  - `processing`: Derived subproducts obtained from processing other
    items. The items used as inputs are those that have a non-zero
    processing use in the commodity balance sheet. See
    [`get_wide_cbs()`](https://eduaguilera.github.io/whep/reference/get_wide_cbs.md)
    for more details. In each process there is a single input. In some
    processes like olive oil extraction or soyabean oil extraction this
    might make sense. Others like alcohol production need multiple
    inputs (e.g. multiple crops work), so in this data there would not
    be a process like alcohol production but rather a *virtual* process
    like 'Wheat and products processing', giving all its possible
    outputs. This is a constraint because of how the data was obtained
    and might be improved in the future. See
    [`get_processing_coefs()`](https://eduaguilera.github.io/whep/reference/get_processing_coefs.md)
    for more details.

- `proc_cbs_code`: The code of the main item in the process taking
  place. Together with `proc_group`, these two columns uniquely
  represent a process. The main item is predictable depending on the
  value of `proc_group`:

  - `crop_production`: The code is from the item for which seed usage
    (if any) is reported in the commodity balance sheet (see
    [`get_wide_cbs()`](https://eduaguilera.github.io/whep/reference/get_wide_cbs.md)
    for more). For example, the rice code for a rice production process
    or the cottonseed code for the cotton production one.

  - `husbandry`: The code of the farmed animal, e.g. bees for
    beekeeping, non-dairy cattle for non-dairy cattle husbandry, etc.

  - `slaughtering`: The code of the live animal being slaughtered, e.g.
    non-dairy cattle for cattle slaughter.

  - `processing`: The code of the item that is used as input, i.e., the
    one that is processed to get other derived products. This uniquely
    defines a process within the group because of the nature of the data
    that was used, which you can see in
    [`get_processing_coefs()`](https://eduaguilera.github.io/whep/reference/get_processing_coefs.md).

  For code details see e.g.
  [`add_item_cbs_name()`](https://eduaguilera.github.io/whep/reference/add_item_cbs_name.md).

- `item_cbs_code`: The code of the item produced or used in the process.
  Note that this might be the same value as `proc_cbs_code`, e.g., in
  rice production process for the row defining the amount of rice
  produced or the amount of rice seed as input, but it might also have a
  different value, e.g. for the row defining the amount of straw residue
  from rice production. For code details see e.g.
  [`add_item_cbs_name()`](https://eduaguilera.github.io/whep/reference/add_item_cbs_name.md).

- `type`: Can have two values:

  - `use`: The given item is an input of the process.

  - `supply`: The given item is an output of the process.

- `value`: Quantity in the item's own unit. Most items are measured in
  tonnes; live animals are measured in heads; animal draught is measured
  as annual useful work energy (TJ).

## Examples

``` r
build_supply_use(example = TRUE)
#> # A tibble: 10 × 11
#>     year area_code polity_area_code reporting_polity_code reporting_polity_name 
#>    <dbl>     <dbl>            <int> <chr>                 <chr>                 
#>  1  2021       255              255 BEL-1831-2025         Belgium               
#>  2  2003        84               84 GRC-1919-2025         Greece                
#>  3  1982         3                3 ALB-1913-2025         Albania (1913-2025)   
#>  4  2000         8                8 ATG-1800-2025         Antigua and Barbuda   
#>  5  2013       170              170 PER-1942-2025         Peru                  
#>  6  1985        75               75 GMB-1800-2025         Gambia                
#>  7  1969       144              144 MOZ-1891-1975         Mozambique (1891-1975)
#>  8  2010        NA               NA NA                    NA                    
#>  9  1998       115              115 KHM-1953-2025         Cambodia              
#> 10  1967       238              238 ETH-1952-1993         Ethiopia (1952-1993)  
#> # ℹ 6 more variables: reporting_polity_has_geometry <lgl>, proc_group <chr>,
#> #   proc_cbs_code <dbl>, item_cbs_code <dbl>, type <chr>, value <dbl>
```
